Add documentation for TiDB specific SQL functions (#5699)
pingcap/docs: functions-and-operators/tidb-functions.md

---

> title: TABLE | TiDB SQL Function Reference

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: TiDB Specific Functions | TiDB SQL Function Reference
```

summary: An overview of the usage of TiDB specific functions for the TiDB database.
---

> 

Reviewer: Please add a H1 for "TiDB Specific Functions"

# TIDB_BOUNDED_STALENESS

The `TIDB_BOUNDED_STALENESS` function is an internal function of TiDB.

> # TIDB_DECODE_KEY

Reviewer: I don't think these should all be H1s. The H1 should be "TiDB Specific Functions" and these should be H2s underneath.

Author: I changed the H1s to H2s and H2s to H3s.

---
title: TiDB Specific Functions | TiDB SQL Function Reference
summary: An overview of the usage of TiDB specific functions for the TiDB database.
---

# TiDB Specific Functions

## TIDB_BOUNDED_STALENESS

> The `TIDB_BOUNDED_STALENESS` function is an internal function of TiDB.

Author: Yes, I think we should document that this is internal, but not what it does or how it can be used.

> The `TIDB_BOUNDED_STALENESS` function is an internal function of TiDB.

Reviewer 2: Detailed information is needed. See https://github.com/pingcap/docs/blob/master/as-of-timestamp.md#syntax.

## TIDB_PARSE_TSO

The `TIDB_PARSE_TSO` function can be used to extract the physical timestamp from a TiDB TSO timestamp.

TSO stands for Time Stamp Oracle and is a monotonically increaseasing timestamp given out by PD (placement driver) for every transaction.

A TSO is a number that consists of two parts:

- A physical timestamp
- A logical counter

### Synopsis

```ebnf+diagram
TableStmt ::=
    "TIDB_PARSE_TSO(" NUM ")"
```

### Examples

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
BEGIN;
SELECT TIDB_PARSE_TSO(@@tidb_current_ts);
ROLLBACK;
```

```sql
+-----------------------------------+
| TIDB_PARSE_TSO(@@tidb_current_ts) |
+-----------------------------------+
| 2021-05-26 11:33:37.776000        |
+-----------------------------------+
1 row in set (0.0012 sec)
```

Here `TIDB_PARSE_TSO` is used to extract the physical timestamp from the timestamp number that is available in the `tidb_current_ts` session variable. As timestamps are given out per transactions this is running in an transaction.

### MySQL compatibility

The `TIDB_PARSE_TSO` function is TiDB specific and is not compatible with MySQL.

### See also

- [tidb_current_ts](/system-variables.md#tidb_current_ts)

## TIDB_VERSION

> The `TIDB_VERSION` function can be used to get version and buil details of the TiDB server you are connected to. This can be used when reporting issues on GitHub.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `TIDB_VERSION` function can be used to get the version and build details of the TiDB server that you are connected to. You can use this function when reporting issues on GitHub.
```

### Synopsis

```ebnf+diagram
TableStmt ::=
    "TIDB_VERSION()"
```

> ### Examples

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Example
```

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
SELECT TIDB_VERSION()\G
```

```sql
*************************** 1. row ***************************
TIDB_VERSION(): Release Version: v5.1.0-alpha-13-gd5e0ed0aa-dirty
Edition: Community
Git Commit Hash: d5e0ed0aaed72d2f2dfe24e9deec31cb6cb5fdf0
Git Branch: master
UTC Build Time: 2021-05-24 14:39:20
GoVersion: go1.13
Race Enabled: false
TiKV Min Version: v3.0.0-60965b006877ca7234adaced7890d7b029ed1306
Check Table Before Drop: false
1 row in set (0.00 sec)
```

### MySQL compatibility

> The `TIDB_VERSION` function is TiDB specific and is not compatible with MySQL. Requesting version information with `VERSION` can be used if MySQL compatibility is required, but this doesn't contain build details.

Reviewer 2: Is this what you mean?
```suggestion
The `TIDB_VERSION` function is TiDB-specific and not compatible with MySQL. If MySQL compatibility is required, you can also use `VERSION` to get version information, but the result does not contain build details.
```

---
title: TiDB Specific Functions
summary: Learn about the usage of TiDB specific functions.
---

# TiDB Specific Functions

This document introduces the functions that are specific to TiDB.

## TIDB_BOUNDED_STALENESS

The `TIDB_BOUNDED_STALENESS` function is an internal function of TiDB.

## TIDB_DECODE_KEY

> The `TIDB_DECODE_KEY` function can be used to decode a TiDB-encoded key entry into a JSON structure containing `_tidb_rowid` and the `table_id`. These encoded keys can be found in some system tables and in logging outputs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `TIDB_DECODE_KEY` function can be used to decode a TiDB-encoded key entry into a JSON structure containing `_tidb_rowid` and `table_id`. These encoded keys can be found in some system tables and in logging outputs.
```
